On a night of unrelenting football drama in a packed, intense stadium in the foothills of the Alps, Manchester United conquered the highest summit yet in Alex Ferguson's triumphant 13 years as leader of the expeditionary force at Old Trafford. Last night United planted a glorious red flag on one of Europe's most prestigious peaks and their colours will fly high over the Nou Camp in Barce-lona on May 26. Manchester United are in the European Cup final for the first time since 1968. Those are words Ferguson has longed to read. The word Ferguson used to describe the experience of get ting there was 'phenomenal'. He was dead right. Barcelona and Bayern Munich await, although sadly Roy Keane, whose individual display was staggering, will not play that night. A 32nd-minute booking for United's captain, already on one yellow card, robbed him of what should have been his greatest evening. Paul Scholes, a second-half substitute, also picked up a second yellow and misses out. Ferguson called that a 'tragedy' and bemoaned the apparent lack of avenues of ap peal. Keane's suspension is all the more regrettable as it was he who chiselled the monumental fight-back after Filippo Inzaghi had seemingly ended United's interest in the competition with goals in the sixth and 11th minutes. Concussed by those striking blows to their hopes, United were in danger of being embarrassed as well as convincingly beaten but Keane's remarkable spirit produced a vivid headed goal midway through the first half and in the 34th minute Dwight Yorke's 27th goal of the season brought the scores level. United would be through on away goals at that point but their insatiable appetite for attack saw Yorke and Denis Irwin hit the Juventus wood- work either side of half-time. Finally, with five minutes to go and with Juventus pushing forward, Andy Cole delivered a smiling tap-in winner after Angelo Peruzzi tripped Yorke in the area. The referee waved play on and Cole ensured a first United victory on Italian soil in eight attempts and 43 years of sweaty effort. That illustrates the historic scale of United's win and, with a unique treble still possible, these truly are history men. Moreover, one of their most significant number, Ryan Giggs, scorer of the late, late equaliser at Old Trafford in the first leg, was missing. In his absence Ferguson retained his side's natural shape by preferring Jesper Blomqvist to Nicky Butt on the left. Butt still played, however, Scholes's artistry being sacrificed at the start. Not that any United planning or tactics counted after the opening 10 minutes. Juventus were breathtaking and it was United's breath being taken. Zinedine Zidane and Edgar Davids were threatening a hammering, Zidane's high-velocity cross after five minutes bypassing everyone as it sped along Peter Schmeichel's six-yard box until Inzaghi, ghosting in behind Gary Neville, stabbed the ball in. In five minutes, prompted by another slick pass from Davids, Inzaghi grabbed a second although, as he twisted to shoot, the last touch was off Jaap Stam's boot. It sent the ball in a dispiriting arc over Schmeichel and in. At two down Keane initiated an inspirational resuscitation, rising like Tommy Smith 22 years previously for Liverpool in Rome to spear in a header from David Beckham's inswinging corner. That was rousing in itself but 10 minutes later things got even better for United when Yorke hung in the air to steer in Cole's centre with his head with remarkable certainty. All was far from settled, though, and eight minutes after half-time Juventus looked about to book their passage to Spain as Inzaghi bore down on Schmeichel, only to see his shot for a hat-trick rejected by a giant sprawl of a save. Almost at once Cole was let down by poor control at the other end, as Beckham's pinpoint cross found him alone in front of Peruzzi. Redemption was not far off. Ferguson, asked if this was the greatest night of his long career spanning Aberdeen and United, replied: 'I hope my greatest night is to come.' Juventus (4-4-1-1): Peruzzi Birindelli (Amoruso, h-t), Ferrara, Iuliano (Montero, h-t), Pessotto Conte, Deschamps, Davids, Di Livio (Fonseca, 80min) Zidane Inzaghi. Manchester United (4-4-2): Schmeichel G Neville, Stam, Johnsen, Irwin Beckham, Butt, Keane, Blomqvist (Scholes, 68) Yorke, Cole. Referee: U Meyer (Switzerland).